Related to [[3- Middleboxes & Security Policies]].

- [[#Definition|Definition]]
- [[#RFC 3234 classification|RFC 3234 classification]]
- [[#Types|Types]]
		- [[#Firewalls (FW)|Firewalls (FW)]]
		- [[#Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS)|Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS)]]
		- [[#Network Address Translators (NAT)|Network Address Translators (NAT)]]
		- [[#Load Balancers (LB)|Load Balancers (LB)]]

### Definition 

> Any intermediary box, performing functions apart from standard functions of an IP router on the data path between a source host and destination host.


###  RFC 3234 classification 

1. **Protocol Layer**: Determines whether the middlebox acts at the IP layer, the transport layer, the upper layers, or a combination of these.
2. **Explicit vs. Implicit**: Considers if the middlebox function is an explicit part of the protocol design (like an SMTP relay) or an implicit, additional feature (like a NAT).
3. **Single Hop vs. Multi-Hop**: Evaluates if only one middlebox can be in the path or if multiple can exist.
4. **In-Line vs. Call-Out**: Determines whether the middlebox function is executed directly on the data path or involves a call to an ancillary box.
5. **Functional vs. Optimizing**: Assesses if the middlebox performs an essential function (SMTP, SIP) for the application session or if it's merely an optimization (NAT).
6. **Routing vs. Processing**: Distinguishes between middleboxes that only direct packet paths and those that process (change or affect) the packets.
7. **Soft State vs. Hard State**: Looks at how the middlebox handles state information loss - whether the session continues in a degraded mode (soft state) or fails (hard state).
8. **Failover vs. Restart**: Considers if, upon failure, a session is redirected to an alternative box with the same state information or if it must abort and restart​

### Types
##### [[3.1.a - Firewalls]] (FW)
	- Filter traffic based on a set of rules defined by a network administrator
##### Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS)
	- Monitor traffic and collect data for (offline) analysis for security anomalies
	- Capable of more complex inspection than Firewalls
##### Network Address Translators (NAT)
	- Allows multiple (private) hosts to share a single (public) IP address (example scenario: home network).
	- Rewrites the source IP address and port of outgoing packets, memorizes changes in NAT table.
	- Incoming packets are rewritten if mapping exists in NAT table
##### Load Balancers (LB)
	- Provide one point of entry to a service, distribute requests to multiple instances of a service

> NAT has a firewall-like characteristics as a NAT implicitly blocks incoming traffic if no mapping exists. But is not a Firewall-type - **==IT IS NOT A SECURITY TOOL==**.